[theme music]
[beeping]
(John)
'What have we got?'
We picked up a weak signal
a short time ago
coming out of deep space.
Not using the jumpgate?
No, and it's using a frequency
I've never heard before.
Hmm. Alien?
Not exactly.
[automated message]
'This is the Copernicus.
We come in peace.'
[pounding]
Hey!
[both grunting]
[screams]
Through the walls!
It's coming through the wa..
Oh. I need some ozones.
[heavy breathing]
No ozones.
[choking]
Oh, no!
I'm stuck!
Get out of my head!
Where are you?
There you are.
I see you.
Our Father,
who is in heaven
hallowed be the name
thy kingdom is, uh, done.
Thy will is something
on Earth
as it is in-in space.
[groans]
Hail Mary fu..
No..
[screaming]
[dramatic music]
(male narrator)
The Babylon Project was our
last best hope for peace.
A self-contained world
five miles long
located in neutral territory.
A place of commerce
and diplomacy
for a quarter of a million
humans and aliens.
A shining beacon in space
all alone in the night.
It was the dawn
of the Third Age of mankind.
The year the Great War
came upon us all.
This is the story of the last
of the Babylon stations.
The year is 2259.
The name of the place
is Babylon 5.
[theme music]
[music continues]
[automated message]
'This is the Copernicus.
We come in peace.'
'This is the Copernicu..'
Hear me, oh, Lord,
and the rest of you
miserable sinners
and you non-humanoid types!
Judgment day is coming
and it don't care what you
look like.
And I have seen it.
An army of darkness,
soldiers of the devil
or something like that.
We're all in great danger!
'A pox upon this station.'
You!
A sound tree
cannot bear evil fruit
unless it's got bad roots.
Oh, please, don't I have
troubles enough?
I have walked
in the valley of the--
Good! Keep on walking.
Hurry, ambassador, he's gaining.
You with the hair..
Oh, jeez.
Please.
Now, unless you have
a Class C missionary license
it's time for a little R&R.
You can't. You can't!
There is no shelter.
It's coming! It's coming!
Right.
Just got the message.
Any idea where it's from?
We're still trying
to identify the design.
'But wherever it's been,
it's taken a hell of a beating.'
Why didn't it use
the jumpgate?
That's what we're trying
to figure out.
(female #1)
'Maintenance,
hold Bot 12 in position'
'for a longitudinal scan.'
(male #1)
'Roger, Control. We're trying
for a visual ID now.'
- Those look like letters.
- 'Mmm.'
It's English.
USS.
Earth?
I've never seen this design
before.
Hmm. Then check your history.
Ships like this were used
in early deep-range exploration
back before we got
jumpgate technology
'from the Centauri.'
Well, that's was over
a hundred years ago.
What's it doing
way out here?
Things were pretty
primitive back then.
Maybe it missed a thruster
firing or went off course.
Wow. It's been adrift
ever since.
Possibly.
That's a hell of a wrong turn
to make.
Maybe it wasn't a wrong turn.
Why don't we ask the pilot?
(John)
There is something
alive in there.
Bring her in.
- Sheridan to Medlab.
- 'Franklin.'
We may have a patient
for you in Docking Bay 4.
[dramatic music]
[suspenseful music]
I got something over here.
Cryogenic freezer.
I've seen them
at the Air and Space Museum.
Well, let's see
if anybody's home.
(Michael)
'Oh. This one's dead.'
I've got life signs
in this one right here.
Her signal's weakening.
Opening the ship must have
triggered something.
(Stephen)
'We're gonna have to get her
back to Medlab'
'or we'll lose her.'
Open it up.
[hissing]
[dramatic music]
(med tech)
We're losing her pulse. thready.
She's gone into arrest.
50cc's of DeValera.
Still flat line.
Cardiac stimulator.
Ready, hit her.
- Nothing.
- Try it again.
Go! Move!
(Amis)
'Incoming!'
Incoming! Incoming! In..
How long has
he been like that?
Couple of hours now.
To the walls.
Get to the walls.
Damn lurkers.
We ought to space
all of them.
- Oh, God, stop them.
- Hanson.
Incoming.
Were you in the war?
No, I missed it.
He didn't.
How do you know?
Incoming.
I've had that same dream.
[switch clicks]
[slams fist]
That's better.
[indistinct voice]
[gasps]
You alright?
I never felt better.
I'm a picture of...health.
Where am I?
Oh, God.
[chuckles]
What did I do this time?
You don't remember?
Well, I found that life is
in general, much easier
if I forget
most of the things
that happen to me.
You were about to accuse
the Centauri ambassador
of being in league
with the devil
which might not be
far from the truth.
Oh, God, my head hurts.
They've had to put you out.
Oh, I was that bad.
You were standing
in the middle of the Plaza
yelling that the day
of judgment was coming.
Did it?
Not that I know, but
I may have missed
a staff meeting.
You ever done this before?
[chuckles]
Hell, I-I've done
everything before.
[chuckles]
Where were you stationed?
Nowhere special.
Just here and there.
Just a gropo.
It was no big deal.
I figured you
for a ground pounder.
Me too.
It looks like we both
missed our chance to be heroes.
What about the dreams?
Dreams? Well,
I-I...never dream.
You've been talking
in your sleep.
Is there a reason
that that door is open?
You can go.
I know some good counselors.
I've used them myself.
Now, what would a man
with everything in the world
do with one of them?
Hmm?
[device beeping]
When did it start?
Moments ago.
'Looks like a dream.'
Or a nightmare.
[gasps]
(Stephen)
It's alright.
I'm a doctor.
Do you understand?
There's nothing
to be afraid of.
I'll take care of you.
I ran a general diagnostic
of all systems that still
appear to be operating.
And then I found this.
'According
to the system analysis'
'there's no malfunction
of the other cryogenic tube.'
He should be alive.
You double checked it?
Three times.
Something or someone
murdered him.
(Stephen)
'At the time of death,
the victim's weight'
appears to be have
been about 90 pounds.
Given his height
and bone structure
his normal weight
should have been 180.
But malnutrition
wasn't what killed him.
'He died as a result
of organ failure.'
- Why?
- I don't know.
They're missing.
It's as if something
reached inside of him
and pulled everything out.
- What happened to the organs?
- Hmm?
There's no evidence of them
anywhere on the ship.
We ran a complete scan.
'If there was so much
as a cell remaining'
'we would have found it.'
I think we better have a talk
with the woman
who was with him.
No, I don't think
that's such a good idea yet.
A man's been murdered
and the list of suspects
is pretty short.
According to the ship's log
she was in stasis
the whole time.
She couldn't have done it.
Logs can be altered.
And it's a good bet
he didn't reach down his throat
and yank out his own heart.
(med tech)
'Dr. Franklin?'
Yes?
'She's awake
and asking for you.'
I have to go.
When she's ready,
I wanna talk to her.
Finish up for me.
- Lousy way to die, huh?
- Mmm.
Last I checked, there weren't
too many good ways.
Well.
Looking a lot better.
Oh, I'm feeling
a lot better
thanks to you, Doctor..
Franklin.
Stephen.
If you don't mind
answering a few questions?
What were you doing
on that ship?
Will, my husband and I
are part of a commercial
research group.
They needed volunteers
for a long-term
deep-space mission
and I jumped at the chance.
We were assigned
to the Copernicus.
She was programmed
to home in on any signal
we might come across
and wake us up.
I never thought the signal
could be of human origin.
How long were we in stasis?
I think we should take
this a day at a time.
That doesn't sound very good.
How long?
Well, I don't have
the exact number..
...but over 100 years.
A hundred..
I'd like to see Will now.
'Something's wrong, isn't it?'
I'm afraid he died
during the voyage.
'I'm sorry.'
Oh, God.
We still haven't been
able to determine
exactly what happened.
We just said goodnight
to each other.
I can't cry.
Long-term stasis
dries the tear ducts.
God.
What have I done?
It says
that the system's down.
You gotta check
the reading.
- I'm trying.
- 'What? See what it says?'
[instrumental music]
Holy mother.
(male #1)
'Hey, you!'
[dramatic music]
Never seen an alien
before, have you?
There are indications
of their other life forms
but I never imagined
anything like that.
I've missed so much.
Well, not all
of it's been good.
A few years after
your ship left Earth
we finally made contact
with another species.
The Centauri.
We opened up trade relations
and they gave us
jumpgate technology.
But before that,
we'd been pretty much
limited to our own solar system.
And after that
we were out among the stars.
First, leasing time
on alien jumpgates
and then building our own.
So the cryogenic suspension
the goodbyes..
...was all for nothing.
If we'd just waited
a few more years.
Well, you couldn't have known.
What you did, it-it took..
...vision.
It took courage.
What else have I missed?
Uh, the usual.
The good times
and the bad times.
The revelations,
the revolutions.
Outbreaks of hysteria,
the parade of scandals
promises, constitutions
and the occasional war.
The last big ones were
against the Dilgar, which we won
and against the Minbari,
which..
Well, that's a long story.
Then we still haven't
outgrown violence?
No.
It's gonna take a lot more
than a 100 years
to evolve a better human.
- 'Doctor.'
- Ambassador.
This must be our visitor
from the past.
Mariah Cirrus, this is
Ambassador G'kar of the Narn.
(G'kar)
'Take my advice and go back'
to the time you came from.
The future isn't
what it used to be.
[screaming]
(Stephen)
'Welcome back.'
Here, take it easy.
You passed out.
Where am I?
My quarters.
They were closer than Medlab.
Mmm.
I guess you came
to my rescue again.
Hardly.
You were having a dream.
You cried out as if
something were attacking you.
I did?
Yeah.
[exhales sharply]
I guess
I just don't remember.
It seemed very frightening
and violent.
Why are you interested
in my dreams?
I haven't been completely candid
with you about your husband.
What are you saying?
He didn't just die.
Something killed him.
Something that was on that ship.
No, there were..
...there were just
the...two of us.
God.
You think I killed him.
No, no, no, no.
I think maybe something
in your dreams
might be able to tell us
what did.
No. What kind
of insanity is this?
- It's gonna be alright.
- Oh!
It's gonna be alright.
I don't know where I am
any more. I..
- I'm all alone.
- No, you're not alone.
You're not alone.
You're not.
[instrumental music]
I, uh, I don't think
this is appropriate
at this particular time.
No, I..
...I guess not.
It's just that
I'm a little scared.
I don't know, maybe more
than just a little.
Why don't you, uh..
Why don't you just
try and rest?
'Just try and rest.'
[hisses]
No. No thanks.
I'm trying to cut down.
You are all gonna die!
A soldier of darkness has come
on that ship from the past.
- 'I have seen it.'
- Save me some dessert.
Don't close your eyes,
don't sleep. It'll find you.
Brother Garibaldi,
I was looking for you--
Let's take a walk, huh?
You're starting to make
the Natives restless.
I'm not crazy.
It's on this station.
What is?
Death.
It came off that ship
from the past.
I followed it.
- You sure of that?
- Yes.
I saw it do the same thing
during the war.
[dramatic music]
[growling]
[screaming]
(Stephen)
Finished examining the victim.
Not one of his internal organs
is still inside his body.
What happened to them?
I don't know.
There's no sign of an entry
or exit wound.
In other words, he died the same
way as Mariah's husband.
Correct.
It's assuming
that's who she really is.
What are you saying?
[sighs]
I arrested a lurker
named Amis
who was stationed
on a deep space listening post
during the war.
Forty-seven men
landed on that moon.
All of them were slaughtered
except one.
Is there a point to this?
Amis thinks whoever
wiped out his post
came here on the Copernicus.
No. We ran a thorough scan
on that ship.
If there was an alien onboard
we would have found it.
Unless it's something
we'd never seen before.
Something completely
outside our experience.
I traced the ship's path.
It passed within
the gravitational pull
of the same moon
that Amis was stationed on.
'Mariah Cirrus
may not be what she appears.'
She had nothing to do
with his death.
How can you be sure?
Because she was with me
last night.
The whole night.
Oh. Moving kinda fast,
aren't you, doc?
I don't sleep
with my patients.
She's in pain
and I'm helping her. That's all.
I want a watch put on her
24 hours a day
and I don't mean you.
Are you suggesting
I'm not doing my job?
I'm suggesting if something
is threatening this station
I'll do whatever is necessary
to protect it.
All this on the word
of a lurker?
I checked his war record.
They put enough ribbons on his
chest to open a gift shop.
Word of this murder has spread
among the alien community.
The Non-Aligned Worlds have
asked for a council meeting
to discuss the possibility
that something
came aboard this station
from that ship.
Go over her bioscan again
and then make sure
you haven't missed something.
For what it's worth
I hope you're right.
But if you're not
be careful.
We insist this woman be removed
from this station.
On what grounds?
She has brought something evil
from the past.
A soldier of darkness.
[laughs]
That is rich.
Nothing like a good
ghost story, huh?
Let him speak.
I find this very interesting.
Go on.
The forces of darkness
do not move openly.
They work through others,
use others.
When the darkness
was defeated long ago
they scattered..
...hid themselves away
in secret places
and waited.
Now the dark hand
is reaching out
and recalling them
from their sleep.
And you think this woman is one
of these soldiers of darkness?
Evil sometimes
wears a pleasant face.
All too true.
I believe we should consider
what he is saying.
Why am I not surprised?
More of your superstition.
- 'I don't know.'
- Please.
Don't tell me
you believe this?
There's an old human saying.
"Where's there's smoke,
there's fire."
'If you ignore it,
you get burned.'
Now I don't have to believe
in this dark force
to realize there is
something strange going on.
Well, it's been nice having
this little chat with you
but I have more
important things to do.
If there's something
aboard this station
find it and kill it.
It's that simple.
The rest is nonsense.
[chuckling]
If you do nothing about
her presence here..
...we will.
I don't like threats.
And as long as I am
the law on B-5
I intend to see
everyone is protected
human and alien alike.
Understood?
This meeting's adjourned.
Very smooth.
That bad?
What if something did
get onboard the Copernicus
when it passed that moon?
A soldier of darkness?
I'll believe it
when I see it.
Let's hope we don't
get the chance.
[gasps]
[deep breaths]
[exhales sharply]
Oh, hell.
Okay! Rise and shine, pal.
You know, everything in your
Earthforce record suggests
you're out of your mind.
Oh, that's a matter
of some debate
in the medical community.
I mean, there are those
who give me
the benefit of the doubt.
Just figure me
for a compulsive liar.
- You want me to believe you?
- Yeah.
Then this is your chance.
Take me to where
you followed it.
What?
Right now.
It was there.
What did it look like?
The past.
[thudding]
[suspenseful music]
- Freeze!
- Huh!
I-I saw it.
You have to believe me.
You want me, you bastard!
Well, I'm here!
Come on, let's finish it!
Come on!
[sobbing]
During the war,
there was a guy in my unit.
He kept telling everybody
our perimeter was weak.
We laughed 'cause
we checked it over and over.
'It was secure.'
'We all figured
he was nuts.'
Until then,
we'd never seen any action.
Then one night
we stopped laughing.
Came through that perimeter
like it was paper.
He was the first to die.
Saved our butts.
He was a nut..
...but he was right.
I believe you.
The honored did.
Tell me about
the listening post.
We were an intelligence
gathering unit
not set up for heavy combat.
We'd heard the Minbari
were setting up
a command and control post
so we slipped
onto a small moon
before they finished
the perimeter scanners.
They set up camp in..
...old ruins of some kind.
'As far as we knew,
it was a dead world.'
It came in the night
during a storm.
We heard nothing,
saw nothing.
It came right through
the walls..
...like a hot wind.
'The first man died
just meters from me.'
Never even screamed.
We ran.
For a second,
I thought I lost it.
'Then I saw it.'
Standing in the middle
of a ball of lightning.
It looked like it had come
straight from hell.
How did you survive?
I didn't.
[sniffles]
It kept me alive..
...as a snack.
It becomes part of you
feeding on you.
The lucky ones were the men
who died on that moon.
What it took from me
I can never get back.
When the rescue party
showed up
I weighed 85 pounds.
'That's how I knew
it was on this station.'
A part of me is still
inside that thing.
I can feel it.
But nobody ever believed me.
Until now.
This feeling,
can it lead you to it?
I think.
I think maybe
that's what it's been doing..
...all this time.
They're calling me, I think.
Maybe we have some unfinished
business between us.
Amis!
Mariah.
What are you doing here?
It's all I have now.
This..
...my memories..
...and you.
Or, maybe I'm assuming
more than I should.
I just think this is happening
a little fast, don't you?
You just lost your husband.
I know.
And I'd be lying if I said
I don't miss him.
I do.
And I wanna find
whatever killed him.
But I'd also be lying
if I said
things were perfect
between us.
Before we left Earth
Will and I
must have split up
half a dozen times.
After a while,
all we had in common..
...were the stars..
...and dreams.
You can go far on that.
A 100 years.
What about you?
The same problem, I guess.
I mean, my work..
...comes first.
Always has.
Finding someone who
understands that, uh..
Well, it hasn't been easy.
And this place
isn't exactly ideal
for raising a family.
No, it's not.
Maybe it's just as well
Will never woke up.
I don't think he would have
liked this world.
Mariah..
Whatever killed your husband
is on this station
and has taken another life.
Now I need to know
everything that you know.
In my dreams..
...there's something
in the life tube with me.
and I think it was
using me to stay alive
until it could find
more food.
Babylon 5.
I've put everybody here
in great danger.
[Amis screaming]
Official accounts
of the massacre
at the listening post
blame the attack
on the Minbari.
Amis may not be sure of much
but he is sure of one thing.
That post was not attacked
by the Minbari.
He said it was as if
hell had been let loose.
Well, that doesn't help us much.
No, but he also said
the alien took a part of him
when he left his body.
T-that he could feel
its presence on the station.
Some kind of symbiosis?
That may be.
Then if the same thing
happened to Mariah
she might be able
to help us find it.
It's too risky.
Whatever's on the station
came from her ship.
If what the lurker
said is true
and there is some kind of
symbiotic relationship
who knows what kind of influence
it may have over her.
You know, she could
be scouting for it
without knowing
what she's doing.
Well, if what happened on that
listening post is happening here
we're not gonna have
to go looking for it.
It'll find us.
'Let's just make sure
we're ready for it.'
[dramatic music]
Miss Cirrus.
Oh, Mr. Garibaldi.
Yes.
I need your help
to find a friend.
Dr. Franklin told me
about him.
I'm sorry.
Can you find this thing?
Can you feel where it is?
I think so.
I can try.
Provided her doctor comes along.
We're getting reports
of weapons fire in brown 90.
Then part of a signal came in.
I think it was Garibaldi.
Then it was cut off.
Seal off the area.
I don't want anyone in there.
- Sheridan to Franklin.
- I tried him.
He's not answering.
I'd say they found it.
Break out heavy weapons.
Have a security detail
meet us down there.
[dramatic music]
- 'You alright?'
- Garibaldi pulled him out.
He went back in.
Alright. You two
stay here with them.
You let us know
if it doubles back.
I don't want it to escape.
You ready?
You got a plan?
- Just try not to get killed.
- Brilliant.
Amis!
Kill it! Kill it!
Shoot! Shoot!
[gun zaps]
Get up!
Come on!
It's gotta be stopped.
You finished
your tour of duty.
Get down!
[zapping]
Calling..
It knows I'm here,
and it's waiting for me.
These PPG's don't do
much more than sting it.
Prowls around
hurt for a while
but it comes back stronger.
Yeah.
One bee sting
may be a annoyance
but a 100 of 'em
can kill you.
Ivanova, you got a fix
on my position?
(Susan)
'Confirmed. On our way.'
No, negative.
Triangulate your fire
and stand by.
I wanna set up a kill zone,
point-blank.
How's your charge?
I'm down to my last cap.
Well, let's hope
that's enough.
(Amis)
'It won't work.'
It's too smart for that.
It can smell a trap.
It can wait.
It's patient.
You've gotta give it
what it wants!
- Amis, no!
- Hey!
Alright, I'm here!
You wanted me?
Here I am!
Let's finish it!
Come on!
No more dreams.
Let's end it.
Amis, get clear!
Amis!
[screaming]
Open fire!
[gunfire]
[alien shrieking]
(Michael)
We got it, Amis.
We got it.
No more bad dreams.
It's over.
[dramatic music]
You sure
he's gonna be okay?
He's just banged up.
I gave him something
to help him sleep.
All he wanted
was to be set free.
To forget.
Maybe now he can.
So, what about you?
What about me?
Well, you're gonna need
a place to stay
and this is
good a place as any.
I can help.
I thought about it,
but I-I can't.
Not yet, anyway.
I have a 100 years
to catch up on.
I need to see Earth.
Bury Will..
...mourn for a while.
I just need time.
If I can, I'll come back.
If you're still interested.
I think there's
a good chance of that.
Don't make promises
life won't let you keep.
Take care, Stephen.
Captain, we just got finished
analyzing the database
onboard the Copernicus.
Took us a while to go through
100 years of routine entries
but so far, everything
she told us checks out.
I think we kind of
figured that out by now.
Not entirely.
There's one more thing
I figured you ought to know.
According to the ship's log
the Copernicus
lost 10% of its oxygen
when it passed by a moon
in Sector 18 by 70 by 59.
Which would have been caused
when that thing came aboard.
Exactly.
But when it left that sector
it was heading
on a new course.
That thing must have been more
intelligent than we thought.
Fortunately, it didn't know that
the ship was also programmed
to make contact with any
signals it came across.
Otherwise, it would have
just gone right by
and we never would
have known it was there.
You said the ship
was reprogrammed
to a new destination.
Yeah.
So, where was it going?
It was heading
for the Rim.
Toward the exact place
where ambassador G'kar
told us an ancient enemy
was gathering its forces.
Z'ha'dum.
Do you think
it's a coincidence?
A few weeks ago, I probably
would have said yes.
But, now, no.
Something's going on, commander.
I know.
Between you and me..
...it's scaring
the hell out of me.
[suspenseful music]
[exhales sharply]
[theme music]